 Kickstarting with Excel

## Overview of Project

### Purpose

- The data used for this analysis was pulled from [Kickstarter Challenge excel workbook](Kickstarter_Challenge.zip) and covers a wide array of subjects ranging from Film and Photography to Music and Journalism. The Dates of these campaigns also range from 2009 to 2017.The objective of this Analysis was to visualize and determine if the outcomes of certain Kickstarter Campaigns were impacted based on two factors; Launch date and Pre-determined goals. With that information we'd hope to have a better understanding of how to run an effecient Kickstarter campaign by selecting an optimal month to possibly start the campaign and reasonable goal to set. Specifically we investigated the Parent catagory 'Theater', with hopes to optimize Louise's Kickstarter campaign for her play *Fever*. First we examined the outcomes of Theater Kickstarter campaigns based on their launch date by comparing the number of Successful, Failed, and Canceled campaigns in relation to the month the campaign was launched. Next we explored the number of Successful, Failed, and Canceled Kickstarter campaigns in relation to their goals. Which was broken down into 12 increments ranging from goals of less than $1,00.00 to greater than $50,000.00.
## Analysis and Challenges

### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date

- To visualize the outcomes ("Successful", "Failed", and "Canceled") of Theater Kickstarter Campaigns based on Launch date I first had to convert the Unix timestamp listed in the "Launched_at" column (J) in the [Kickstarter Challenge excel workbook](Kickstarter_Challenge.zip) into a readible date in a new column "Date Created Conversion"(S) using `=(((J2/60)/60)/24)=DATE(1970,1,1)` and applying to the whole column. I then Created a subsequent Column for "Date Ended Conversion" (T) by using the same formual but substituting column I `=(((I2/60)/60)/24)=DATE(1970,1,1)` and applying to the whole column. Once these new columns were created I then created a "Years" coloumn (U) by using the `YEAR()` function to extract the year from the "Date Created Conversion" column (S)`=YEAR(S2)`. Once that was completed I selected the whole data set and inserted the data into a new Pivot table on a new sheet labled "Theater Outcomes based on Launch date". I filterd the pivot table based on "parent Catagory" and "Years". I then placed The "Outcomes" field in the columns section, and also placed the "Count of Outcomes" field in the Values section.Lastly, I placed the "Date Created Conversion" field in the Rows section. Then by filtering the Parent Catargory to "Theater only" I was able to see which months in the year had the most successful theater kickstarter campagns. As compared to which months had the most Failed and Canceled campaigns. After creating this table I was able to generate a Pivot line chart based on these outcomes [Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch](Kickstarter_Challenge.zip)

### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals

- In order to visualize the outcomes ("Successful", "Failed", and "Canceled") of Kicksatrter campaigns based on funding goal amount I used the data initially referenced in the [Kickstarter Challenge excel workbook](Kickstarter_Challenge.zip). I extracted the number of "Successful", "Failed", and "Canceled" 'play' campaigns and grouped them on a table based on their goal amounts using the `=COUNTIFS()` function on a new excel sheet labled "Outcomes Based on Goals". The groupings were listed as rows (y-axis) on the table and seperated into 12 increments based on dollar amount ranges (Less than 1000, 1000 to 4999, 5000 to 9999, 10000 to 14999, 15000 to 19999, 20000 to 24999, 25000 to 29999, 30000 to 34999, 35000 to 39999, 40000 to 44999, 45000 to 49999, 50000 or More). The "Number Successful", "Number Failed", and "Number canceled" catagories were listed as columns/ Headers (X-axis). The `COUNTIFS()` formula for the "Number Successful" column started in cell C2 and read as `=COUNTIFS(Kickstarter!$F:$F,"=successful",Kickstarter!$D:$D,"<1000",Kickstarter!$R:$R,"plays")`. The function broken down is first referencing the inital Kickstarter sheet/ data set with *Kickstarter!*, then referring to the whole "outcomes" Column (F) with *$F:$F*. Then specifying that we only want successful outcomes with *"=successful"*. Then the function references the whole "Goal" Column (D) in the initial Kickstarter data set with *Kickstarter!$D:$D* and then specifys funding goal range by listing *"<1000"*. The last part of the function again refers back tot he initial Kickstarter data set/ sheet and specifys that we only want the count of successful kickstarter campaigns in the "plays" subcatagory, *"Kickstarter!$R:$R,"plays"*. As I progressed down the column adding the number of successful kickstarter campaigns that had corresponding funding goal amounts the formula would change based on the funding goal range, Ex.)Cell C3 formula `=COUNTIFS(Kickstarter!$F:$F,"=successful",Kickstarter!$D:$D,">=1000",Kickstarter!$D:$D,"<4999",Kickstarter!$R:$R,"plays")`. Once I completed the final cell in the "Number Successful" Column ( C13 ) `=COUNTIFS(Kickstarter!$F:$F,"=successful",Kickstarter!$D:$D,">=50000",Kickstarter!$D:$D,">50000",Kickstarter!$R:$R,"plays")` I essentially copied and pasted the formula to the "Number Failed" (D) and "Number Canceled" (E) columns. I adjusted the =`COUNTIFS()` formula to pull only Failed kickstarter campaigns for column D, E.x.)`=COUNTIFS(Kickstarter!$F:$F,"=failed",Kickstarter!$D:$D,"<1000",Kickstarter!$R:$R,"plays")` and Canceled Kickstarter campaigns for Column E, E.x.) `=COUNTIFS(Kickstarter!$F:$F,"=canceled",Kickstarter!$D:$D,"<1000",Kickstarter!$R:$R,"plays")`. Once the number of Successful, Failed, and canceled campaigns were correctly groupeed with their corresponding funding goal a "Total Projects" column was created (column ) which took the toal number of campaigns in each grouping, E.x.) Total projects/ campaigns with a goal "Less than 1000" was 186. I calculated this with the following function  `=SUM(C2:E2)` and applied it to the whole column. Next in order to better visualize which funding group had the largest percentage of Successful Campaigns vs Failed vs Canceled I created "Percentage Successful" (Column G), "Percentage Failed"(Column H), "Percentage Canceled"(Column I) columns and divided the number by the total number of projects,E.X) The percentage successful in the <1000 grouping was 75.81% (`=C2/$F2`). Then i applied tothe whole column. I used this function to find the percentage for the first cell in columns H (`=D2/$F2`),I (`=E2/$F2`) and then applied it to the whole column. Once the table was complete I inserted a line Chart to visualize the results and have a better comparison of which "Funding amount/ Funding group" had the most success [Outcomes_vs_Goals]().

### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered

- Initially, there were very few challenges with the first part of the analysis. The *Analysis of Outcomes based on Launch Date* was reletivily simple and straight forward but I started the *Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals* few problems arose. I had finished the table and started charting the outcomes based on Goals data when I realized the Line chart did not look right. After changing some of the fields around I realized the table I had worked on had to be wrong. Going back through the functions I used to create the table I realized I was missing a vital portion of the `COUNTIFS()` function when creating the " Numbers Successful", Numbers Failed', and the "Numbers Canceled" columns of the table. I had forgotton to reference the Subcatagory 'plays' from the [Kickstarter Challenge excel workbook](Kickstarter_Challenge.zip) in the function. So initially my Function read `=COUNTIFS(Kickstarter!$F:$F,"=successful",Kickstarter!$D:$D,"<1000")` which means the function was pulling the data from the whole [Kickstarter Challenge excel workbook](Kickstarter_Challenge.zip) and all of the Parent/ Subcatagory's. Obviously this was why my Pivot chart was off. not having that portion of the function was throwing off the data for the wholtable, since the "Total Projects" columns and all of the percentages columns were based off of these counts. So I went back through adding the final portion of the function, `,Kickstarter!$R:$R,"plays"` to the 3 columns which resulted in a much better looking Line chart.

## Results
- What are two conclusions you can draw about the Outcomes based on Launch Date?

  1. When looking at the data two months stand out when comparing the the count of successful Kickstarter Campaigns. May and June respectivly had 111 and 100 successful campaigns, with July being the third highest at 87 Successful campaigns. When looking at failed campaigns, these months (May and June) also had higher than average failed campaigns as well but about average canceled campaigns. When looking at the overall total number of Campaigns held in each of those months you can see they also had the highst grand total of campaigns held with May at 166 and June at 153. Initially you could say that the results just indicate that May and June had higher number of successfile campaigns, simply because they had a higher number of overall campaigns held. But when referencing the Line chart [Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch]() you can see the number of successful campaigns and Failed campaigns follow the same pattern throught the first 4 months of the year (Jan-April). Then In May you see a drastic spike in Successful campaigns (jumping from 71 to 111) and staying relativly higher in June (100 successful) and even in July (87 Successful). The jump of succesful campaigns from April to May is well over the standard deviation of the data set of 20.79973048 [Descriptive Statistics table on 'Theater Outcomes by Launch Date Sheet'], but would not be considerd an outlier (under 124.5) '83.25+(1.527.25)`. Even June, at 100 Successful campaigns is over one deviation higher than the Average for the data set of 69.92. With July being just under 1 standard deviation higher (17.08) than the average. Where then In august the succesesful campaigns revert to the average or closer to the average with 72 Successful campaigns. Whereas the the Failed campaigns for those months stay relativly consistant with the other monnths and are even higher in one month (October has 50 Failed ). When referencing the [Descriptive Statistics table on 'Theater Outcomes by Launch Date Sheet'] the Grand total of Capmaigns for these months ( May, June, and July ) do follow the same "spike" in numbers, similer to the "successful number". With the average number of "grand total" campagns for the data set being 114.08 and these months resepctivly having 166 (May), 153 (June), and 138 (July). But the number of Failed campaigns, even though on the higher end. Do not haev that same spike. I would conclude that the summer months of May, June, and July yeild a higfher than normal successful campaigns making thee months optimal months to start a Theater Kickstarter Campaign. 

  2. It is more common that Theater Kickstarter campaigns are held in the months of May - August. This Stretch of four months saw a total of 580 Kickstarter campaigns held, while the 8 other months saw 789 total campaigns held. Those 4 months account for 42.3% ( 580/1369=0.42366691) of the overall Theater campaigns in the [Kickstarter Challenge excel workbook](Kickstarter_Challenge.zip) 'Theater' Subcatagory.


- What can you conclude about the Outcomes based on Goals?

  1. One main conlusion that can be drawn form this analysis is that Kickastarter campaigns in the 'Play' Subcatagory with lower funding goals, were much more effeciant that Campaigns that started out with Higher funding goals. The two groupings with Funding goals of "Less than $1,000.00" and "$1,000.00 to $4,999.00" had an average percent success rate of 74.21 [(75.81% + 72.61%)/2)]. The Average success rate/ percentage of the other 10 groupings was  40.15% (`=AVERAGE(G4:G13)`)[Kickstarter Challenge excel workbook(Outcomes Based on Goals worksheet)](Kickstarter_Challenge.zip).In Addition, these two Groupings (Funding goals of "Less than $1,000.00" and "$1,000.00 to $4,999.00") had a much higher number of total campaigns overal. these 2 goupings had 719 total Projects, while the other 10 groupings had a total of 323 total projects. Similer to the findings in the previous analysis, "Outcomes based on Launch Date". You could condlude that these two groupings just had a higher number of projects to work with, which lead to the number of higher "Successful" outcomes. but when looking at the "Percentage Failed" Column and line chart. The percentage of failed outcomes is relativily low (25.79% Failed) when compared to the other Groupings (59.85% Failed).So when considering the **much** higher number of total projects for the "Less than $1,000.00" and "$1,000.00 to $4,999.00" groupings along with the percentage "Successful" being much higher and percentage "failed" being much lower than the reast of the groupings, id conclude that having a lower initial "Funding Goal" is condusive in having a succesful play kickstarter campaign.

- What are some limitations of this dataset?

  1. One limitation of this Dataset could be the limiting Catagry/ Subcatagories. It would have been benefical to possibly have a Genre catagory for the Plays to further pin point certain plays that may be similer to Louise's. This would lead to a more in depth analysis of not only plays in general but plays that are int he simler genra as herplay, *Fever*. Another limitation is that the Dataset is only pulling Kickstarter campagns from 2009 to 2017. im sure there could be some useful information agthered from a more recent list (Campaigns launched after 2017). especially if her play osi going to be launched/ funded in 2022.

- What are some other possible tables and/or graphs that we could create?

  1. As I referred to above, I did create a "descriptive statistics" table for the Outcomes Based on Launch date data table. The same could be done for the Table created for the "Outcomes Based on Goals Analysis". We could have further broken down the Theater/ Play data by counrty and/ or by "backers_count". filtering more by country specifically could have been important as the popularity of Theater/ plays could Vary by country. It would have also been interesting to dive deeper in to the "pledged" Amounts for the "Successful' Outcomes and try to determine if any specific characteristic or item lead to a higher pledge amount/ lower pledge amount or was consistant among the Kickstarter campaigns that had higher Pledge amounts in relation to their Goal. 
